Day 15:

in top 3% on thm
started advent of cyber and jr pentester path on thm..tryna cover all free rooms in this
learnt what is pentesting, basic security principles
vulnerabilities and their types...cvss, vpr, exploitdb, nvd

intro to web hacking..just using browser..no linux
inspect, vw src code, developer tools like inspector, debugger, network
content discovery:
mannual:sitemap.xml, robots.txt, framework stack, http headers, favicon
osint:google dorking, wappalyzer, github, waybackmachine, s3 buckets
automated:dirb, ffuf, gobuster..using wordlists

passive recon: whois: to get info abt website, dig, nslookup for dns servers , dnsdumpster and shodan.io for dns stuff in detail

Day 16:
got selected for CyberSecurity and Digital Forensics Internship program in Cyber Secured India
did week1 ka stuff..windows,linux and networking fundamentals..

Day 17: 
learnt to execute elf files ./filename
ltrace ./filename to see library calls
strace ./filename to see system calls
using && to mainpulate data in elf files..
solved leviathan challenge in overthewire

plan: finish all overthewire challhenges and concepts by this week end..in another 3-4 days

Day 18:
finished activerecon thm room
ping -c 10 MACHINE_IP to check if target is alive n sending back pkts
traceroute MACHINE_IP to find path thr whivh data flows thr all routers to reach destination
telnet MACHINE_IP PORT_NUMBER insecure ssh basically it is andre no encryption
nc MACHINE_IP PORT_NUMBER on client
nc -lvnp PORT_NUMBER on server
Ctrl+Shift+I for seeing developer tools on firefox open script.js

There are also plenty of add-ons for Firefox and Chrome that can help in penetration testing. Here are a few examples:

FoxyProxy lets you quickly change the proxy server you are using to access the target website. This browser extension is convenient when yo
u are using a tool such as Burp Suite or if you need to switch proxy servers regularly. You can get FoxyProxy for Firefox from here.
User-Agent Switcher and Manager gives you the ability to pretend to be accessing the webpage from a different operating system or different
web browser. In other words, you can pretend to be browsing a site using an iPhone when in fact, you are accessing it from Mozilla Firefox.
Wappalyzer provides insights about the technologies used on the visited websites. Such extension is handy, primarily when you collect all
this information while browsing the website like any other user.

Python:
name = input("enter ur name:")
print("hello"+name)
reading n writing files: months = open('months.txt') ,print(months), months.close()
months.mode, months.readable(), months.readLines(),months.seek(0)
to write: open('days.txt',"w"), days.write("Monday")
classes n objects
def_init(self,...), self.price, if not(isinstance(...))
